1 Chronicles 16:11 | Seek the Lord and His strength;  seek His presence continually!
1 Corinthians 10:13 | No temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind. And God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, He will also provide a way out so that you can endure it.
1 Corinthians 10:24 | No one should seek their own good, but the good of others.
1 Corinthians 10:25 | Eat anything sold in the meat market without raising questions of conscience, for, "The earth is the Lord’s, and everything in it."
1 Corinthians 10:31 | Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.
1 Corinthians 10:8 | We should not commit sexual immorality, as some of them did - in one day twenty-three thousand of them died.
1 Corinthians 10:9 | We should not test Christ, as some of them did - and were killed by snakes.
1 Corinthians 11:11-12 | Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. But everything comes from God.
1 Corinthians 11:18 | I hear that when you come together as a church, there are divisions among you, and to some extent I believe it.
1 Corinthians 11:3 | I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. 
1 Corinthians 11:4-5 | Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head. But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head — it is the same as having her head shaved.
1 Corinthians 11:7-9 | A man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. For man did not come from woman, but woman from man; neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.
1 Corinthians 12:4-6 | There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes them. There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them and in everyone, it is the same God at work.
1 Corinthians 13:11 | When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me.
1 Corinthians 13:13 | And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.
1 Corinthians 13:2 | If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:4-5 | Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs.
1 Corinthians 14:20 | Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. In regard to evil be infants, but in your thinking be adults.
1 Corinthians 14:34 | Women should remain silent in the churches. They are not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says. 
1 Corinthians 14:35 | If women want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church.
1 Corinthians 15:22 | Just as in Adam all of us died, so too in Christ all of us will be brought to life.
1 Corinthians 15:33-34 | Do not be misled: "Bad company corrupts good character". Come back to your senses as you ought, and stop sinning; for there are some who are ignorant of God.
1 Corinthians 15:36-37 | What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. When you sow, you do not plant the body that will be, but just a seed [...]
1 Corinthians 15:42-44 | So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
1 Corinthians 15:46-47 | The spiritual did not come first, but the natural, and after that the spiritual. The first man was of the dust of the Earth. The second man is of Heaven. 
1 Corinthians 15:54-56 | When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: "Death is swallowed up in victory." "O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?"
1 Corinthians 15:58 | Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.
1 Corinthians 16:13 | Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
1 Corinthians 16:14 | Do everything in love.
1 Corinthians 2:9 | It is written: "What no eye has seen, what no ear has heard, and what no human mind has conceived"; the things God has prepared for those who love Him.
1 Corinthians 3:17 | If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy that person; for God’s temple is sacred, and you together are that temple.
1 Corinthians 3:18-19 | Do not deceive yourselves. If any of you think you are wise by the standards of this age, you should become "fools" so that you may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness in God’s sight. As it is written: "He catches the wise in their craftiness".
1 Corinthians 4:12-13 | We work wearily with our own hands to earn our living. We bless those who curse us. We are patient with those who abuse us. We appeal gently when evil things are said about us. Yet we are treated like the world’s garbage, like everybody’s trash–right up to the present moment.
1 Corinthians 5:1 | For we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in Heaven, not built by human hands.
1 Corinthians 6:12 | "I have the right to do anything," you say, but not everything is beneficial. "I have the right to do anything", but I will not be mastered by anything.
1 Corinthians 6:18 | Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually, sins against their own body.
1 Corinthians 6:19-20 | Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own, you were bought at a price. Therefore honor God with your bodies.
1 Corinthians 6:9-10 | Do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived! Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who have sex with men, nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. 
1 Corinthians 7:3-4 | The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body but yields it to her husband. In the same way, the husband does not have authority over his own body but yields it to his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:39 | 39 A woman is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to marry anyone she wishes, but he must belong to the Lord.
1 John 2:15-16 | Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in them. For everything in the world – the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life – comes not from the Father but from the world.
1 John 2:4 | Whoever says, "I know Him", but does not do what He commands is a liar, and the truth is not in that person.
1 John 2:6 | Whoever claims to live in Him must live as Jesus did.
1 John 3:1-3 | See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know Him. Beloved, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when He appears, we shall be like Him, because we shall see Him as He is. And everyone who thus hopes in Him purifies himself as He is pure.
1 John 3:22 | And whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do what pleases Him.
1 John 4:12 | No one has ever seen God; but if we love one another, God lives in us and His love is made complete in us.
1 John 4:16 | And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them.
1 John 4:20 | Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God, whom they have not seen.
1 Peter 1:23-25 | "You have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; for "All flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever."
1 Peter 2:11 | Dear friends, I urge you, as foreigners and exiles, to abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against your soul.
1 Peter 2:16 | Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil; live as God’s slaves.
1 Peter 2:7 | The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
1 Peter 2:9-10 | But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God’s people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.
1 Peter 3:7 | In the same way, you husbands must give honor to your wives. Treat your wife with understanding as you live together. She may be weaker than you are, but she is your equal partner in God's gift of new life. Treat her as you should so your prayers will not be hindered.
1 Peter 4:8 | Most important of all, continue to show deep love for each other, for love covers a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 5:10 | And the God of all grace, who called you to His eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will Himself restore you and make you strong, firm and steadfast.
1 Peter 5:7 | Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you.
1 Thessalonians 5:11 | Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.
2 Chronicles 7:14 | If My people, who are called by My name, will humble themselves and pray and seek My face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from Heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land. 
2 Corinthians 12:9 | My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
2 Corinthians 1:3-4 | Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2 Corinthians 4:16-18 | So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.
2 Corinthians 5:6-9 | So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please Him.
2 Corinthians 8:7 | Since you excel in everything — in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness and in the love we have kindled in you — see that you also excel in this grace of giving.
2 Corinthians 9:6 | Remember this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously.
2 Corinthians 9:7 | Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
2 Corinthians 9:9 | They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor, their righteousness endures forever.
2 Thessalonians 3:10 | While we were with you, we gave you the order: "Whoever doesn’t want to work shouldn’t be allowed to eat."
2 Thessalonians 3:16 | Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times and in every way.
2 Thessalonians 3:3 | But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen and protect you from the evil one.
2 Timothy 1:7 | For God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love and of self-discipline.
2 Timothy 2:6-7 | And hardworking farmers should be the first to enjoy the fruit of their labor. Think about what I am saying. The Lord will help you understand all these things.
2 Timothy 3:1-5 | Mark this! There will be terrible times in the last days. People will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not lovers of the good, treacherous, rash, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness but denying its power. Have nothing to do with such people.
2 Timothy 4:7-8 | I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
Acts 17:24-25 | The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples built by human hands. And he is not served by human hands, as if he needed anything. Rather, He Himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else.
Acts 17:28 | In Him we live and move and have our being.
Acts 17:29 | Since we are God’s offspring, we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone – an image made by human design and skill. 
Acts 17:31 | He has set a day when He will judge the world with justice by the man He has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising Him from the dead.
Acts 1:6b-8a | "Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel?" He said to them: "It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by His own authority". You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you.
Acts 20:28c-30 | Be shepherds of the church of God, which He bought with His own blood. I know that after I leave, savage wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock. Even from your own number men will arise and distort the truth in order to draw away disciples after them.
Acts 20:35 | [Paul] In everything I did, I showed you that by this kind of hard work we must help the weak, remembering the words the Lord Jesus himself said: "It is more blessed to give than to receive."
Acts 2:17 | In the last days, God says, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams.
Acts 2:36 | Let all Israel be assured of this: God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Messiah.
Acts 2:38 | Repent and be baptised, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
Acts 3:19 | Repent and turn to God, so that your sins may be wiped out, that times of refreshing may come from the Lord.
Acts 4:11 | Jesus is the stone you builders rejected, which has become the cornerstone.
Acts 4:12 | Salvation is found in no one else but Jesus, for there is no other name under Heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved.
Acts 7:49-50 | "Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me?" says the Lord. "Where will my resting place be? Has not my hand made all these things?"
Amos 4:13 | He who forms the mountains, who creates the wind, and who reveals His thoughts to mankind, who turns dawn to darkness, and treads on the heights of the Earth - the Lord God Almighty is His name.
Amos 5:10 | There are those who hate the one who upholds justice in court and detest the one who tells the truth.
Amos 5:12-13 | I know how many are your offenses and how great your sins are. There are those who oppress the innocent and take bribes and deprive the poor of justice in the courts. Therefore the prudent keep quiet in such times, for the times are evil.
Amos 5:14-15 | Seek good, not evil, that you may live. Then the Lord God Almighty will be with you, just as you say He is. Hate evil, love good and maintain justice in the courts. Perhaps the Lord God Almighty will have mercy on the remnant of Joseph.
Amos 5:18 | Woe to you who long for the day of the Lord! Why do you long for the day of the Lord? That day will be darkness, not light.
Amos 5:18,22b,23 | I hate, I despise your religious festivals; your assemblies are a stench to me. Though you bring choice fellowship offerings, I will have no regard for them. Away with the noise of your songs! I will not listen to the music of your harps.
Amos 5:6 | Seek the Lord and live, or He will sweep through the tribes of Joseph like a fire; it will devour them, and Bethel will have no one to quench it.
Amos 5:7 | There are those who turn justice into bitterness and cast righteousness to the ground.
Amos 7:14-15 | Amos answered Amaziah, "I was neither a prophet nor the son of a prophet, but I was a shepherd, and I also took care of sycamore-fig trees. But the Lord took me from tending the flock and said to me, "Go, prophesy to my people Israel."
Amos 8:11-13 | "The days are coming!" declares the Sovereign Lord, "when I will send a famine through the land, not a famine of food or a thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. People will stagger from sea to sea and wander from north to east, searching for the word of the Lord, but they will not find it." In that day "the lovely young women and strong young men will faint because of thirst."
Colossians 3:14 | And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity.
Colossians 3:16 | Let the message of Christ dwell among you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom through psalms, hymns, and songs from the Spirit, singing to God with gratitude in your hearts. 
Colossians 3:17 | And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
Colossians 3:23-24 | Work willingly at whatever you do, as though you were working for the Lord rather than for people. Remember that the Lord will give you an inheritance as your reward, and that the Master you are serving is Christ.
Colossians 3:9 | Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices
Daniel 10:12 | Do not be afraid, Daniel. Since the first day that you set your mind to gain understanding and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come in response to them.
Daniel 10:19 | "Do not be afraid, you who are highly esteemed" he said. "Peace! Be strong now, be strong." When he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, "Speak, my lord, since you have given me strength."
Daniel 2:20b-23 | Daniel praised the God of heaven and said: "Praise be to the name of God for ever and ever; wisdom and power are His. He changes times and seasons, He deposes kings and raises up others. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to the discerning. He reveals deep and hidden things, He knows what lies in darkness, and light dwells with Him. I thank and praise You, God of my ancestors: You have given me wisdom and power, You have made known to me what we asked of You. You have made known to us the dream of the king."
Daniel 3:17-18 | If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to deliver us from it, and He will deliver us from Your Majesty’s hand. But even if He does not, we want you to know, Your Majesty, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up.
Daniel 3:29 | Then Nebuchadnezzar said, "I decree that the people of any nation or language who say anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego be cut into pieces and their houses be turned into piles of rubble, for no other god can save in this way."
Daniel 6:26b-27 | For He is the living God and He endures forever. His kingdom will not be destroyed, His dominion will never end. He rescues and He saves; He performs signs and wonders in the heavens and on the earth. He has rescued Daniel from the power of the lions.
Daniel 9:22-23 | He instructed me and said to me, "Daniel, I have now come to give you insight and understanding. As soon as you began to pray, a word went out, which I have come to tell you, for you are highly esteemed. Therefore, consider the word and understand the vision."
Deuteronomy 20:16-17 | In the cities of the nations the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, do not leave alive anything that breathes. Completely destroy them – the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites – as the Lord your God has commanded you.
Deuteronomy 31:6 | Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you.
Deuteronomy 31:6-8 | Be strong and bold; have no fear or dread of them, because it is the Lord your God who goes before you. He will be with you; He will not fail you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.
Deuteronomy 31:8 | It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you; He will not fail you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.
Deuteronomy 33:27 | The eternal God is your refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms.
Ecclesiastes 10:1 | As dead flies give perfume a bad smell, so a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor.
Ecclesiastes 10:12 | Words from the mouth of the wise are gracious, but fools are consumed by their own lips.
Ecclesiastes 10:15 | The toil of fools wearies them; they do not know the way to town.
Ecclesiastes 10:18 | Through laziness, the rafters sag; because of idle hands, the house leaks.
Ecclesiastes 10:3 | Even as fools walk along the road, they lack sense and show everyone how stupid they are.
Ecclesiastes 11:4 | Whoever watches the wind will not plant; whoever looks at the clouds will not reap.
Ecclesiastes 11:6 | Sow your seed in the morning, and at evening let your hands not be idle, for you do not know which will succeed, whether this or that, or whether both will do equally well.
Ecclesiastes 11:9-10 | You who are young, be happy while you are young, and let your heart give you joy in the days of your youth. Follow the ways of your heart and whatever your eyes see, but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment. So then, banish anxiety from your heart and cast off the troubles of your body, for youth and vigor are meaningless.
Ecclesiastes 12:1 | Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the days of trouble come and the years approach when you will say, "I find no pleasure in them".
Ecclesiastes 1:14 | I have seen all the things that are done under the sun; all of them are meaningless, a chasing after the wind...
Ecclesiastes 1:18 | For with much wisdom comes much sorrow; the more knowledge, the more grief.
Ecclesiastes 1:3-4 | What do people gain from all their labors at which they toil under the sun? Generations come and generations go, but the earth remains forever.
Ecclesiastes 1:9-10 | What has been will be again, what has been done will be done again; there is nothing new under the sun. Is there anything of which one can say, "Look! This is something new"?
Ecclesiastes 2:13 | I saw that wisdom is better than folly, just as light is better than darkness.
Ecclesiastes 2:14 | The wise have eyes in their heads, while the fool walks in the darkness, but I came to realize that the same fate overtakes them both...
Ecclesiastes 2:16 | For the wise, like the fool, will not be long remembered; the days have already come when both have been forgotten. Like the fool, the wise too must die!
Ecclesiastes 3:1-4 | There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the Heavens: a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to uproot, a time to kill and a time to heal, a time to tear down and a time to build, a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance.
Ecclesiastes 3:11 | He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also set eternity in the human heart; yet no one can fathom what God has done from beginning to end. 
Ecclesiastes 3:12 | I know that there is nothing better for people than to be happy and to do good while they live. 
Ecclesiastes 3:18-19 | I also said to myself, "As for humans, God tests them so that they may see that they are like the animals. Surely the fate of human beings is like that of the animals; the same fate awaits them both: As one dies, so dies the other. All have the same breath; humans have no advantage over animals. 
Ecclesiastes 4:12 | Though one may be overpowered, two can defend themselves. A cord of three strands is not quickly broken.
Ecclesiastes 4:2-3 | And I declared that the dead, who had already died, are happier than the living, who are still alive. But better than both is the one who has never been born, who has not seen the evil that is done under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 4:5-6 | Fools fold their hands and ruin themselves. Better one handful with tranquillity than two handfuls with toil and chasing after the wind.
Ecclesiastes 4:8 | There was a man all alone; he had neither son nor brother. There was no end to his toil, yet his eyes were not content with his wealth. "For whom am I toiling," he asked, "and why am I depriving myself of enjoyment?"
Ecclesiastes 4:9 | Two are better than one, because they have a good return for their labor: If either of them falls down, one can help the other up. But pity anyone who falls and has no one to help them up. Also, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. But how can one keep warm alone?
Ecclesiastes 5:10 | Whoever loves money never has enough; whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with their income.
Ecclesiastes 5:11 | As goods increase, so do those who consume them. And what benefit are they to the owners except to feast their eyes on them?
Ecclesiastes 5:15 | Everyone comes naked from their mother’s womb, and as everyone comes, so they depart. They take nothing from their toil that they can carry in their hands.
Ecclesiastes 5:2 | Do not be quick with your mouth, do not be hasty in your heart to utter anything before God. God is in Heaven and you are on Earth, so let your words be few.
Ecclesiastes 5:5-6 | It is better not to make a vow than to make one and not fulfill it. Do not let your mouth lead you into sin. 
Ecclesiastes 6:10-11 | Whatever exists has already been named, and what humanity is has been known; no one can contend with someone who is stronger. The more the words, the less the meaning, and how does that profit anyone?
Ecclesiastes 6:7-8 | Everyone’s toil is for their mouth, yet their appetite is never satisfied. What advantage have the wise over fools? What do the poor gain by knowing how to conduct themselves before others?
Ecclesiastes 7:1 | A good name is better than fine perfume, and the day of death better than the day of birth.
Ecclesiastes 7:10 | Do not say, "Why were the old days better than these?" For it is not wise to ask such questions.
Ecclesiastes 7:11-12 | Wisdom, like an inheritance, is a good thing and benefits those who see the sun. Wisdom is a shelter as money is a shelter, but the advantage of knowledge is this: Wisdom preserves those who have it.
Ecclesiastes 7:16-18 | Do not be overrighteous, neither be overwise... why destroy yourself? Do not be overwicked, and do not be a fool - why die before your time? It is good to grasp the one and not let go of the other. Whoever fears God will avoid all extremes.
Ecclesiastes 7:2 | It is better to go to a house of mourning than to go to a house of feasting, for death is the destiny of everyone; the living should take this to heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:20 | Indeed, there is no one on Earth who is righteous, no one who does what is right and never sins.
Ecclesiastes 7:28 | While I was still searching, but not finding, I found one upright man among a thousand, but not one upright woman among them all.
Ecclesiastes 7:3 | Frustration is better than laughter, because a sad face is good for the heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:4 | The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of pleasure.
Ecclesiastes 7:7 | Extortion turns a wise person into a fool, and a bribe corrupts the heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:8 | The end of a matter is better than its beginning, and patience is better than pride.
Ecclesiastes 9:10 | Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might, for in the realm of the dead, where you are going, there is neither working nor planning nor knowledge nor wisdom.
Ecclesiastes 9:12 | As fish are caught in a cruel net, or birds are taken in a snare, so people are trapped by evil times that fall unexpectedly upon them.
Ecclesiastes 9:16 | So I said, "Wisdom is better than strength." But the poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are no longer heeded.
Ecclesiastes 9:17 | The quiet words of the wise are more to be heeded than the shouts of a ruler of fools.
Ecclesiastes 9:18 | Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good.
Ecclesiastes 9:5-6 | For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing; they have no further reward, and even their name is forgotten. Their love, their hate and their jealousy have long since vanished; never again will they have a part in anything that happens under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 9:9 | Enjoy life with your wife, whom you love, all the days of this meaningless life that God has given you under the sun—all your meaningless days. For this is your lot in life...
Ephesians 2:8-9 | For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith — and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God — not by works, so that no one can boast.
Ephesians 4:2 | Be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love.
Ephesians 4:2-3 | With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Ephesians 4:26 | In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.
Ephesians 4:29 | Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen.
Ephesians 4:32 | Be kind to each other, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, just as God through Christ has forgiven you.
Ephesians 5:14 | Wake up, sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
Ephesians 5:20 | Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 5:21 | Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.
Ephesians 5:22 | Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord.
Ephesians 5:25-26 | Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through The Word.
Ephesians 5:28 | Husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Ephesians 6:12 | Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.
Exodus 15:2 | The Lord is my strength and my song; he has given me victory. This is my God, and I will praise Him, my father’s God, and I will exalt Him!
Exodus 20:12 | Honor your father and your mother, so that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you.
Exodus 20:14 | You shall never commit adultery.
Exodus 20:15 | You shall not steal.
Exodus 20:16 | You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
Exodus 20:17b | Thou shalt not covet neighbour's wife.
Exodus 20:2 | I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery.
Exodus 20:20 | Moses said to the people, "Do not be afraid. God has come to test you, so that the fear of God will be with you to keep you from sinning."
Exodus 20:3 | You shall have no other gods before Me.
Exodus 20:4-5 | You shall not make for yourself an image in the form of anything in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the waters below.You shall not bow down to them or worship them; for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God...
Exodus 20:7 | You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God, for the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless who misuses His name.
Exodus 20:8-9 | Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work.
Exodus 33:14 | My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.
Ezekiel 23:19-20 | She became more and more promiscuous as she recalled the days of her youth, when she was a prostitute in Egypt. There she lusted after her lovers, whose genitals were like those of donkeys and whose emission was like that of horses.
Galatians 2:20 | I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me.
Galatians 3:26-28 | So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith, for all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Galatians 5:14-15 | The entire law is fulfilled in keeping this one command: "Love your neighbor as yourself". If you bite and devour each other, watch out or you will be destroyed by each other.
Galatians 5:22-23 | The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law.
Galatians 6:3 | If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves.
Genesis 12:1-3 | The Lord had said to Abram, "Go from your country, your people and your father’s household to the land I will show you. "I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you; I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on Earth will be blessed through you."
Genesis 14:20 | And praise be to God Most High, who delivered your enemies into your hand.
Genesis 18:18-19 | Abraham will surely become a great and powerful nation, and all nations on Earth will be blessed through him. For I have chosen him, so that he will direct his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing what is right and just, so that the Lord will bring about for Abraham what He has promised him.
Genesis 18:26 | The Lord said, "If I find fifty righteous people in the city of Sodom, I will spare the whole place for their sake."
Genesis 19:24 | Then the Lord rained down burning sulfur on Sodom and Gomorrah, from the Lord out of the heavens.
Genesis 19:34,36 | The next day the older daughter said to the younger, "Last night I slept with my father. Let’s get him to drink wine again tonight, and you go in and sleep with him so we can preserve our family line through our father". So both of Lot’s daughters became pregnant by their father.
Genesis 1:1-3 | In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And God said, "Let there be light," and there was light. 
Genesis 1:27-28 | So God created man in His own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female He created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the Heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth."
Genesis 1:28 | Be fruitful and multiply and fill the Earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the Heavens and over every living thing that moves on the Earth.
Genesis 1:3-5 | And God said, "Let there be light," and there was light. God saw that the light was good, and he separated the light from the darkness. God called the light "day," and the darkness he called "night." And there was evening, and there was morning, the first day.
Genesis 1:9-10 | And God said, "Let the water under the sky be gathered to one place, and let dry ground appear." And it was so. God called the dry ground "land," and the gathered waters he called "seas." And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 24:27 | Praise be to the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who has not abandoned his kindness and faithfulness to my master. As for me, the Lord has led me on the journey to the house of my master’s relatives.
Genesis 26:12 | Isaac planted crops in that land and the same year reaped a hundredfold, because the Lord blessed him.
Genesis 29:18-21 | Jacob loved Rachel. And he said, "I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter Rachel." Laban said, "It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to any other man; stay with me." So Jacob served seven years for Rachel...
Genesis 2:18,21-22 | The Lord God said, "It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him.". So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep; and while He was sleeping, He took one of the man’s ribs and then closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib He had taken out of the man, and He brought her to the man.
Genesis 2:23 | The man said, "This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called woman for she was taken out of man."
Genesis 2:3 | God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it He rested from all the work of creating that He had done.
Genesis 30:1,3-5 | When Rachel saw that she was not bearing Jacob any children, she became jealous of her sister. Then she said, "Here is Bilhah, my servant. Sleep with her so that she can bear children for me and I too can build a family through her." So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife. Jacob slept with her, and she became pregnant and bore him a son.
Genesis 31:49b | May the Lord keep watch between you and me when we are away from each other.
Genesis 38:8-10 | Judah said to Onan, "Sleep with your brother’s wife and fulfil your duty to her as a brother-in-law to raise up offspring for your brother." But Onan knew that the child would not be his; so whenever he slept with his brother’s wife, he spilled his semen on the ground to avoid providing offspring for his brother. What he did was wicked in the Lord’s sight; so the Lord put him to death also.
Genesis 3:16 | To the woman He said: "I will make your pains in childbearing very severe; with painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you."
Genesis 3:19 | By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken; for dust you are and to dust you will return.
Genesis 3:20 | Adam named his wife Eve, because she would become the mother of all the living.
Genesis 3:22 | And God said, "The man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat, and live forever."
Genesis 3:4 | "You will not certainly die" the serpent said to the woman.
Genesis 4:6-7 | The Lord said to Cain, "Why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door; it desires to have you, but you must rule over it."
Genesis 6:11,17 | Now the earth was corrupt in God’s sight and was full of violence. "I am going to bring floodwaters on the earth to destroy all life under the heavens, every creature that has the breath of life in it. Everything on earth will perish."
Genesis 6:11-13 | Now the earth was corrupt in God’s sight and was full of violence. God saw how corrupt the earth had become, for all the people on earth had corrupted their ways. So God said to Noah, "I am going to put an end to all people, for the earth is filled with violence because of them. I am surely going to destroy both them and the earth".
Genesis 6:3 | "My Spirit will not contend with humans forever, for they are mortal; their days will be a hundred and twenty years."
Genesis 8:21 | The Lord smelled the pleasing aroma and said in His heart: "Never again will I curse the ground because of humans, even though every inclination of the human heart is evil from childhood. And never again will I destroy all living creatures, as I have done.
Genesis 9:6 | Whoever sheds human blood, by humans shall their blood be shed; for in the image of God, has God made mankind.
Habakkuk 2:1 | I will stand at my watch and station myself on the ramparts; I will look to see what he will say to me, and what answer I am to give to this complaint.
Habakkuk 3:17-18 | Though the fig tree does not bud and there are no grapes on the vines, though the olive crop fails and the fields produce no food, though there are no sheep in the pen and no cattle in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will be joyful in God my Savior.
Haggai 1:5-6 | The Lord Almighty says: "Give careful thought to your ways. You have planted much, but harvested little. You eat, but never have enough. You drink, but never have your fill. You put on clothes, but are not warm. You earn wages, only to put them in a purse with holes in it."
Hebrews 10:19-23 | Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
Hebrews 10:24-25 | And let us consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds, not giving up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day approaching.
Hebrews 12:1-2 | Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
Hebrews 4:12 | For the word of God is alive and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow; it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart.
Hebrews 4:16 | For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who in every respect has been tested as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore approach the throne of grace with boldness, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
Hosea 10:12 | Sow righteousness for yourselves, reap the fruit of unfailing love, and break up your unplowed ground; for it is time to seek the Lord, until He comes and showers His righteousness on you.
Hosea 1:2 | When the Lord began to speak through Hosea, the Lord said to him, "Go, marry a promiscuous woman and have children with her, for like an adulterous wife this land is guilty of unfaithfulness to the Lord."
Hosea 2:13 | "I will punish her for the days she burned incense to the Baals; she decked herself with rings and jewelry, and went after her lovers, but she forgot Me." declares the Lord.
Hosea 3:1 | The Lord said to me, "Go, show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another man and is an adulteress. Love her as the Lord loves the Israelites, though they turn to other gods and love the sacred raisin cakes."
Hosea 4:6-7 | Because you have rejected knowledge, I also reject you as My priests; because you have ignored the law of your God, I also will ignore your children. The more priests there were, the more they sinned against Me; they exchanged their glorious God for something disgraceful.
Hosea 5:15 | I will return to my lair until they have borne their guilt and seek my face in their misery they will earnestly seek me.
Hosea 5:4 | Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God. A spirit of prostitution is in their heart; they do not acknowledge the Lord.
Hosea 6:1 | Come, let us return to the Lord! He has torn us to pieces, but He will heal us. He has injured us, but He will bind up our wounds.
Hosea 6:2 | After two days He will revive us, on the third day He will restore us, that we may live in His presence.
Hosea 6:3 | Let us acknowledge the Lord! Let us press on to acknowledge Him. As surely as the sun rises, He will appear, He will come to us like the winter rains, like the spring rains that water the earth.
Hosea 6:6 | For I desire mercy, not sacrifice, and acknowledgment of God rather than burnt offerings.
Isaiah 10:1-2 | Woe to those who make unjust laws, to those who issue oppressive decrees, to deprive the poor of their rights and withhold justice from the oppressed of my people.
Isaiah 10:3 | What will you do on the day of reckoning, when disaster comes from afar? To whom will you run for help? Where will you leave your riches?
Isaiah 12:2 | Surely God is my salvation; I will trust and not be afraid. The Lord is my strength and my song; He has become my salvation.
Isaiah 25:12 | He will bring down your high fortified wall and lay them low, He will bring them down to the ground, to the very dust.
Isaiah 26:3 | You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on You, because he trusts in You.
Isaiah 26:3-4 | Those of steadfast mind You keep in peace, because they trust in You. Trust in the Lord forever, for in the Lord God, you have an everlasting rock.
Isaiah 29:13-14 | The Lord says: "These people come near to Me with their mouth and honor Me with their lips, but their hearts are far from Me. Their worship of Me is based on merely human rules they have been taught. Therefore once more I will astound these people with wonder upon wonder; the wisdom of the wise will perish, the intelligence of the intelligent will vanish."
Isaiah 29:15 | Woe to those who go to great depths to hide their plans from the Lord, who do their work in darkness and think, "Who sees us? Who will know?"
Isaiah 30:1 | "Woe to the obstinate children," declares the Lord, "to those who carry out plans that are not mine, forming an alliance, but not by My Spirit, heaping sin upon sin".
Isaiah 30:15 | In repentance and rest is your salvation, in quietness and trust is your strength.
Isaiah 33:2 | Lord, be gracious to us; we long for you. Be our strength every morning, our salvation in time of distress.
Isaiah 40:28 | Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired or weary, and His understanding no one can fathom.
Isaiah 40:29 | He gives power to the weak and strength to the powerless.
Isaiah 40:31 | Those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not grow weary, they will walk and not be faint.
Isaiah 41:10 | Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.
Isaiah 41:13 | I am the Lord your God who takes hold of your right hand and says to you, do not fear, I will help you.
Isaiah 43:1-3 | Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. For I am the Lord, your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior.
Isaiah 43:2 | When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you.
Isaiah 43:25 | I, even I, am he who blots out your transgressions, for my own sake, and remembers your sins no more.
Isaiah 45:2-3 | I will go before you and will level the mountains, I will break down gates of bronze and cut through bars of iron. I will give you hidden treasures, riches stored in secret places, so that you may know that I am the Lord, the God of Israel, who summons you by name.
Isaiah 45:5 | I am the Lord, and there is no other; apart from me there is no God. I will strengthen you, though you have not acknowledged me,
Isaiah 45:7 | I form the light and create darkness, I bring prosperity and create disaster; I, the Lord, do all these things.
Isaiah 46:4 | Even to your old age and gray hairs I am he, I am he who will sustain you. I have made you and I will carry you; I will sustain you and I will rescue you.
Isaiah 46:5 | With whom will you compare me or count me equal? To whom will you liken me that we may be compared?
Isaiah 49:15 | Can a mother forget the baby at her breast and have no compassion on the child she has borne? Though she may forget, I will not forget you!
Isaiah 50:4 | The Sovereign Lord has given me a well-instructed tongue, to know the word that sustains the weary. He wakens me morning by morning, wakens my ear to listen like one being instructed.
Isaiah 51:4 | Listen to me, my people; hear me, my nation: Instruction will go out from me; my justice will become a light to the nations.
Isaiah 51:7 | Hear Me, you who know what is right, you people who have taken My instruction to heart: Do not fear the reproach of mere mortals or be terrified by their insults.
Isaiah 54:10 | "Though the mountains be shaken and the hills be removed, yet my unfailing love for you will not be shaken nor my covenant of peace be removed," says the Lord, who has compassion on you.
Isaiah 54:13 | All your children will be taught by the Lord, and great will be their peace.
Isaiah 54:14 | In righteousness you will be established: Tyranny will be far from you; you will have nothing to fear. Terror will be far removed; it will not come near you.
Isaiah 54:5 | For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is His name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole earth He is called.
Isaiah 55:12 | You will go out in joy and be led forth in peace; the mountains and hills will burst into song before you, and all the trees of the field will clap their hands.
Isaiah 55:2 | Why spend money on what is not bread, and your labor on what does not satisfy? Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good, and you will delight in the richest of fare.
Isaiah 55:6 | Seek the Lord while He may be found; call on Him while He is near!
Isaiah 55:7 | Let the wicked forsake their ways and the unrighteous their thoughts. Let them turn to the Lord, and He will have mercy on them, and to our God, for He will freely pardon.
Isaiah 55:8-9 | "For My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways My ways," declares the Lord. "As the Heavens are higher than the Earth, so are My ways higher than your ways and My thoughts than your thoughts.
Isaiah 56:1 | The Lord says: "Maintain justice and do what is right, for My salvation is close at hand and My righteousness will soon be revealed."
Isaiah 57:1-2 | The righteous perish, and no one takes it to heart; the devout are taken away, and no one understands that the righteous are taken away to be spared from evil. Those who walk uprightly enter into peace; they find rest as they lie in death.
Isaiah 57:15-16 | This is what the high and exalted One says: "I live in a high and holy place, but also with the one who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. I will not accuse them forever, nor will I always be angry, for then they would faint away because of me, the very people I have created.
Isaiah 57:21 | "There is no peace" says my God, "for the wicked."
Isaiah 58:10 | If you spend yourselves in behalf of the hungry and satisfy the needs of the oppressed, then your light will rise in the darkness, and your night will become like the noonday.
Isaiah 58:4 | Your fasting ends in quarreling and strife, and in striking each other with wicked fists. You cannot fast as you do today and expect your voice to be heard on high.
Isaiah 59:12 | For our offenses are many in Your sight, and our sins testify against us. Our offenses are ever with us, and we acknowledge our iniquities.
Isaiah 59:3 | For your hands are stained with blood, your fingers with guilt. Your lips have spoken falsely, and your tongue mutters wicked things.
Isaiah 59:9 | Justice is far from us, and righteousness does not reach us. We look for light, but all is darkness; for brightness, but we walk in deep shadows.
Isaiah 8:20 | Consult God’s instruction and the testimony of warning. If anyone does not speak according to this word, they have no light of dawn.
Isaiah 9:2-3 | The people walking in darkness have seen a great light; on those living in the land of deep darkness a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy; they rejoice before You as people rejoice at the harvest, as warriors rejoice when dividing the plunder.
Isaiah 9:6 | For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on His shoulders. And He will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
James 1:12 | Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love Him.
James 1:2-4 | Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
James 1:21-22 | Get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. 
James 1:22-23 | Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror
James 1:23-24 | Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror and, after looking at himself, goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like.
James 1:26 | Those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep a tight rein on their tongues deceive themselves, and their religion is worthless.
James 2:14 | What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save them?
James 2:17 | In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. 
James 2:19-20 | You believe that there is one God. Good! Even the demons believe that — and shudder. You foolish person, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless ?
James 2:26 | As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead.
James 3:1 | Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly.
Jeremiah 20:13 | Sing to the Lord! Give praise to the Lord! He rescues the life of the needy from the hands of the wicked.
Jeremiah 20:18 | Why did I ever come out of the womb to see trouble and sorrow and to end my days in shame?
Jeremiah 20:7 | You deceived me, Lord, and I was deceived. You overpowered me and prevailed. I am ridiculed all day long; everyone mocks me.
Jeremiah 23:11 | "Both prophet and priest are godless; even in my temple I find their wickedness," declares the Lord.
Job 1:21 | And he said, "Naked I came from my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."
Job 8:13 | Such is the destiny of all who forget God; so perishes the hope of the godless.
John 10:27-29 | My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand.
John 11:25-26 | Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?"
John 14:1-3 | Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God; believe also in me. My Father’s house has many rooms; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am.
John 14:27 | Peace I leave with you; my peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid.
John 15:12 | My command is this: Love each other as I have loved you.
John 15:13 | Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
John 16:33 | I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.
John 2:1-5 | In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not any thing made that was made. In Him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.
John 2:6-9 | There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
John 3:16 | For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life.
John 8:12 | I am the light of the world! He who follows Me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
Joshua 1:7 | Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law that Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go.
Joshua 1:9 | Be strong and courageous; do not be frightened or dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.
Jousha 6:17 | The city and all that is in it are to be devoted to the Lord. Only Rahab the prostitute and all who are with her in her house shall be spared, because she hid the spies we sent.
Jousha 6:21 | They devoted the city to the Lord and destroyed with the sword every living thing in it – men and women, young and old, cattle, sheep and donkeys.
Lamentations 3:22-23 | The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases; His mercies never come to an end; they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.
Leviticus 15:19 | When a woman has her regular flow of blood, the impurity of her monthly period will last seven days, and anyone who touches her will be unclean till evening.
Leviticus 15:7 | Whoever touches the man who has a discharge must wash their clothes and bathe with water, and they will be unclean till evening.
Leviticus 19:11 | Do not steal. Do not lie. Do not deceive one another.
Leviticus 19:14 | Do not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block in front of the blind, but fear your God. 
Leviticus 19:15 | Do not pervert justice; do not show partiality to the poor or favoritism to the great, but judge your neighbor fairly.
Leviticus 19:18 | Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. 
Leviticus 19:19 | Do not wear clothing woven of two kinds of material. 
Leviticus 19:29 | Do not degrade your daughter by making her a prostitute, or the land will turn to prostitution and be filled with wickedness.
Leviticus 19:31 | Do not turn to mediums or seek out spiritists, for you will be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus 19:35 | Do not use dishonest standards when measuring length, weight or quantity.
Leviticus 20:13 | If a man has sexual relations with a man as one does with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They are to be put to death; their blood will be on their own heads.
Leviticus 20:15 | If a man has sex with an animal, he must be put to death, and the animal must be killed.
Leviticus 21:16-21 | The Lord said to Moses, "Say to Aaron: For the generations to come none of your descendants who has a defect may come near to offer the food of his God. No man who has any defect may come near: no man who is blind or lame, disfigured or deformed; no man with a crippled foot or hand, or who is a hunchback or a dwarf, or who has any eye defect, or who has festering or running sores or damaged testicles. No descendant of Aaron the priest who has any defect is to come near to present the food offerings to the Lord.
Leviticus 21:22-23 | He may eat the most holy food of his God, as well as the holy food, yet because of his defect, he must not go near the curtain or approach the altar, and so desecrate my sanctuary. I am the Lord, who makes them holy.
Luke 12:2 | There is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, or hidden that will not be made known.
Luke 12:25-26 | Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to your life. Since you cannot do this very little thing, why do you worry about the rest?
Luke 16:10 | Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with much, and whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much. 
Luke 16:13 | No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.
Luke 16:15 | He said to them: you are the ones who justify yourselves in the eyes of others, but God knows your hearts. What people value highly is detestable in God’s sight.
Luke 20:46 | Beware of the teachers of the law. They like to walk around in flowing robes and love to be greeted with respect in the marketplaces and have the most important seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets.
Luke 6:37 | Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Luke 6:38 | Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over, will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.
Luke 6:41 | Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye?
Luke 6:42 | How can you say to your brother, "Brother, let me take the speck out of your eye" when you yourself fail to see the plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.
Luke 6:46 | Why do you call me, "Lord, Lord" and do not do what I say?
Malachi 1:4-5 | Edom may say, "Though we have been crushed, we will rebuild the ruins." But the Lord Almighty says: "They may build, but I will demolish. They will be called the Wicked Land, a people always under the wrath of the Lord. You will see it with your own eyes and say, «Great is the Lord even beyond the borders of Israel!»"
Malachi 1:6 | "A son honors his father, and a slave his master. If I am a father, where is the honor due me? If I am a master, where is the respect due me?" says the Lord Almighty. "It is you priests who show contempt for my name." But you ask: "How have we shown contempt for your name?"
Malachi 1:8 | When you offer blind animals for sacrifice, is that not wrong? When you sacrifice lame or diseased animals, is that not wrong? Try offering them to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he accept you?" says the Lord Almighty.
Malachi 2:1-3 | "And now, you priests, this warning is for you. If you do not listen, and if you do not resolve to honor my name," says the Lord Almighty, "I will send a curse on you, and I will curse your blessings. [...] Because of you, I will rebuke your descendants. I will smear on your faces the dung from your festival sacrifices, and you will be carried off with it."
Malachi 2:14 | You ask, "Why?". It is because the Lord is the witness between you and the wife of your youth. You have been unfaithful to her, though she is your partner, the wife of your marriage covenant.
Malachi 2:15-16 | Has not the one God made you? You belong to Him in body and spirit. And what does the one God seek? Godly offspring. So be on your guard, and do not be unfaithful to the wife of your youth. "The man who hates and divorces his wife, does violence to the one he should protect," says the Lord Almighty.
Malachi 2:7-8 | "For the lips of a priest ought to preserve knowledge, because he is the messenger of the Lord Almighty and people seek instruction from his mouth. But you have turned from the way and by your teaching have caused many to stumble; you have violated the covenant with Levi," says the Lord.
Malachi 3:10 | "Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. Test me in this" says the Lord Almighty, "and see if I will not throw open the floodgates of heaven and pour out so much blessing that there will not be room enough to store it."
Malachi 3:16b-18 | A scroll of remembrance was written in His presence concerning those who feared the Lord and honored His name. "On the day when I act," says the Lord Almighty, "they will be my treasured possession. I will spare them, just as a father has compassion and spares his son who serves him. And you will again see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between those who serve God and those who do not."
Malachi 3:7 | "Ever since the time of your ancestors you have turned away from my decrees and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you" says the Lord Almighty. "But you ask, «How are we to return?»"
Malachi 4:2-3 | "For you who revere my name, the sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its rays. And you will go out and frolic like well-fed calves. Then you will trample on the wicked; they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act" says the Lord Almighty.
Mark 10:27 | Jesus looked at them and said, "With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God."
Mark 10:9 | Therefore what God has joined together, let no one separate.
Mark 7:6 | He replied, "Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you hypocrites". These people honor Me with their lips, but their hearts are far from Me.
Matthew 10:16 | I am sending you out like sheep among wolves. Therefore be as shrewd as snakes and as innocent as doves.
Matthew 10:22 | You will be hated by everyone because of Me, but the one who stands firm to the end will be saved.
Matthew 10:24-25a | The student is not above the teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for students to be like their teachers, and servants like their masters.
Matthew 10:28 | Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of the One who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Matthew 10:32-33 | Whoever acknowledges Me before others, I will also acknowledge before my Father in Heaven. But whoever disowns Me before others, I will disown before my Father in Heaven.
Matthew 10:34 | Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Matthew 10:37,39 | Anyone who loves their father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me; anyone who loves their son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds their life will lose it, and whoever loses their life for my sake will find it.
Matthew 11:25 | Jesus said: "I praise you, Father, Lord of Heaven and Earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children."
Matthew 11:28 | Come to Me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Matthew 11:28-30 | Come to Me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.
Matthew 11:6 | Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of Me.
Matthew 12:30-31 | Whoever is not with Me is against Me, and whoever does not gather with Me scatters. And so I tell you, every kind of sin and slander can be forgiven, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. 
Matthew 12:32 | Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
Matthew 12:35 | A good man brings good things out of the good stored up in him, and an evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in him.
Matthew 12:36-37 | I tell you that everyone will have to give account on the day of judgment for every empty word they have spoken. For by your words you will be acquitted, and by your words you will be condemned.
Matthew 12:50 | Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is My brother, and sister, and mother.
Matthew 13:12 | Whoever has, will be given more, and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them. 
Matthew 13:14 | You will be ever hearing but never understanding; you will be ever seeing but never perceiving.
Matthew 13:16 | Blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear.
Matthew 1:20-21 | After he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said: "Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins."
Matthew 1:21 | You shall call his name Jesus, for He will save His people from their sins.
Matthew 1:23 | "The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Immanuel" (which means "God with us").
Matthew 23:13 | But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of Heaven in people’s faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in.
Matthew 23:27 | Woe to you, teachers of the law and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You are like whitewashed tombs, which look beautiful on the outside but on the inside are full of the bones of the dead and everything unclean.
Matthew 23:28 | On the outside you appear to people as righteous but on the inside you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness.
Matthew 24:7 | For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes.
Matthew 4:3-4 | The tempter came to Him and said: "If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread." Jesus answered, "It is written: man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God."
Matthew 5:10 | Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:11 | Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of Me.
Matthew 5:25 | Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court. Do it while you are still together on the way, or your adversary may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison.
Matthew 5:28 | I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Matthew 5:30 | If your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell.
Matthew 5:39-41 | Do not resist an evil person. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to them the other cheek also. And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles.
Matthew 5:4 | Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.
Matthew 5:42 | Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.
Matthew 5:44 | I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.
Matthew 5:5 | Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth.
Matthew 5:6 | Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled.
Matthew 5:7 | Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.
Matthew 5:8 | Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
Matthew 5:9 | Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God.
Matthew 6:1 | Be careful not to practice your righteousness in front of others to be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your Father in Heaven.
Matthew 6:14 | If you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 
Matthew 6:15 | If you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins.
Matthew 6:16 | When you fast, do not look sombre as the hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show others they are fasting.
Matthew 6:17-18 | When you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face, so that it will not be obvious to others that you are fasting, but only to your Father, who is unseen; and your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you.
Matthew 6:19-21 | Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moths and vermin destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in Heaven, where moths and vermin do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Matthew 6:2 | When you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets, to be honored by others.
Matthew 6:22-23 | The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are unhealthy, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness!
Matthew 6:25 | Do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothes? 
Matthew 6:27 | Can any one of you by worrying add a single hour to your life?
Matthew 6:3 | When you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. Then your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you.
Matthew 6:31,33-34 | Do not worry, saying, “What shall we eat?” or “What shall we drink?” or “What shall we wear?” But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.
Matthew 6:34 | Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.
Matthew 6:5 | When you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others.
Matthew 6:6 | When you pray, go into your room, close the door and pray to your Father, who is unseen. Then your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you.
Matthew 6:7-8 | When you pray, do not keep on babbling like pagans, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him.
Matthew 7:1 | Do not judge, or you too will be judged. 2 For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.
Matthew 7:12 | In everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets.
Matthew 7:13-14 | Enter through the narrow gate. For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it. But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it.
Matthew 7:2 | For in the same way as you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.
Matthew 7:21-22 | Not everyone who says to me, "Lord, Lord" will enter The Kingdom of Heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in Heaven.
Matthew 7:24 | Everyone who hears these words of Mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.
Matthew 7:3 | Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye?
Matthew 7:5 | You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.
Matthew 7:6 | Do not give dogs what is sacred; do not throw your pearls to pigs. If you do, they may trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.
Matthew 7:7-8 | Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives; the one who seeks finds; and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
Micah 4:5 | All the nations may walk in the name of their gods, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever.
Micah 6:8 | He has shown you, O mortal, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God.
Nahum 1:7 | The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; he knows those who take refuge in him.
Nehemiah 8:10 | Do not grieve, for the joy of the Lord is your strength.
Numbers 21:2-3 | Israel made this vow to the Lord: If you will deliver these people into our hands, we will totally destroy their cities. The Lord listened to Israel’s plea and gave the Canaanites over to them. They completely destroyed them and their towns.
Philippians 1:21-23 | For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.
Philippians 2:14 | Do everything without grumbling or arguing.
Philippians 3:20-21 | But our commonwealth is in Heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will change our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power which enables him even to subject all things to himself.
Philippians 3:7-9 | Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For His sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith.
Philippians 4:12-13 | I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation... I can do everything through him who gives me strength.
Philippians 4:13 | For I can do everything through Christ, who gives me strength.
Philippians 4:19 | And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:6-7 | Do not worry about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:8 | Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable—if anything is excellent or praiseworthy—think about such things.
Proverbs 10:4-5 | Lazy hands make for poverty, but diligent hands bring wealth. He who gathers crops in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son.
Proverbs 12:22 | The Lord detests lying lips, but he delights in people who are trustworthy.
Proverbs 12:24 | Diligent hands will rule, but laziness ends in forced labor.
Proverbs 12:28 | In the path of righteousness is life, and in its pathway there is no death.
Proverbs 13:11 | Dishonest money dwindles away, but whoever gathers money little by little makes it grow.
Proverbs 13:4 | Lazy people want much but get little, but those who work hard will prosper.
Proverbs 13:5 | The righteous hate what is false, but the wicked make themselves a stench and bring shame on themselves.
Proverbs 14:23-24 | All hard work brings a profit, but mere talk leads only to poverty. The wealth of the wise is their crown, but the folly of fools yields folly.
Proverbs 14:5 | An honest witness does not deceive, but a false witness pours out lies.
Proverbs 17:12 | Better to meet a bear robbed of her cubs than a fool bent on folly.
Proverbs 17:16 | One who has no sense shakes hands in pledge and puts up security for a neighbor.
Proverbs 17:17 | A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for a time of adversity.
Proverbs 17:22 | A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
Proverbs 17:23 | The wicked accept bribes in secret to pervert the course of justice.
Proverbs 17:25 | A discerning person keeps wisdom in view, but a fool’s eyes wander to the ends of the earth.
Proverbs 17:4 | A wicked person listens to deceitful lips; a liar pays attention to a destructive tongue.
Proverbs 17:5 | Whoever mocks the poor shows contempt for their Maker; whoever gloats over disaster will not go unpunished.
Proverbs 17:7 | Eloquent lips are unsuited to a godless fool, how much worse lying lips to a ruler!
Proverbs 18:10 | The name of the Lord is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe.
Proverbs 18:9 | A lazy person is as bad as someone who destroys things.
Proverbs 20:13 | If you love sleep, you will end in poverty. Keep your eyes open, and there will be plenty to eat!
Proverbs 28:19-20 | A hard worker has plenty of food, but a person who chases fantasies ends up in poverty. The trustworthy person will get a rich reward, but a person who wants quick riches will get into trouble.
Proverbs 30:18-19 | There are three things that amaze me—no, four things that I don't understand: how an eagle glides through the sky, how a snake slithers on a rock, how a ship navigates the ocean, how a man loves a woman.
Proverbs 31:10: Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.
Proverbs 3:3-4 | Let love and faithfulness never leave you; bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. Then you will win favor and a good name in the sight of God and man.
Proverbs 3:5-6 | Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.
Proverbs 4:14-17 | Do not take the path of the wicked; do not follow those who do evil. Stay away from that path; do not even go near it. Turn around and go another way. The wicked cannot sleep until they have done something evil. They will not rest until they bring someone down. Evil and violence are their food and drink.
Proverbs 4:23 | Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it.
Proverbs 6:7-8 | Though they have no prince or governor or ruler to make them work, they labor hard all summer, gathering food for the winter.
Psalm 112:1 | Praise the Lord!
Psalm 112:1,7-8 | Praise the Lord! Happy are those who fear the Lord. They are not afraid of evil tidings; their hearts are firm, secure in the Lord. Their hearts are steady, they will not be afraid.
Psalm 112:5 | Good will come to those who are generous and lend freely, who conduct their affairs with justice.
Psalm 116:15 | Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints.
Psalm 118:14-16 | The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous: "The right hand of the Lord does valiantly, the right hand of the Lord exalts, the right hand of the Lord does valiantly!"
Psalm 119:114-115 | You are my hiding place and my shield;I hope in your word. Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
Psalm 119:163 | I hate and detest falsehood but I love Your law.
Psalm 119:50 | This is my comfort in my affliction, that Your promise gives me life.
Psalm 120:1 | In my distress I called to the Lord, and he answered me.
Psalm 127:1-2 | Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.
Psalm 138:3 | When I called, you answered me; you made me bold and stouthearted.
Psalm 139:1-2 | You have searched me, Lord, and you know me. You know when I sit and when I rise; You perceive my thoughts from afar.
Psalm 139:14 | I praise You because I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Your works are wonderful.
Psalm 139:17 | How precious to me are Your thoughts, God! How vast is the sum of them!
Psalm 139:21-22 | Do I not hate those who hate You, Lord, and abhor those who are in rebellion against You? I have nothing but hatred for them; I count them my enemies.
Psalm 143:8 | Let the morning bring me word of Your unfailing love, for I have put my trust in You. Show me the way I should go, for to You I entrust my life.
Psalm 145:18-19 | The Lord is near to all who call on Him, to all who call on Him in truth. He fulfills the desires of those who fear Him and He hears their cry and saves them.
Psalm 149:6 | For the Lord takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation.
Psalm 16:8 | I have set the Lord always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.
Psalm 16:8-11 | I have set the Lord always before me; because He is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.. Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure. For You will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your Holy One see corruption.. You make known to me the path of life; in Your presence there is fullness of joy; at Your right hand are pleasures forevermore.
Psalm 23:4 | Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
Psalm 27:1-3 | The Lord is my light and my salvation whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked advance against me to devour me, it is my enemies and my foes who will stumble and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear; though war break out against me, even then I will be confident.
Psalm 27:4 | One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple.
Psalm 31:24 | Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the Lord!
Psalm 32:7-8 | You are my hiding place. You will protect me from trouble and surround me with songs of deliverance.
Psalm 34:10 | Those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.
Psalm 34:17 | When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears, and rescues them from all their troubles.
Psalm 34:18 | The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit.
Psalm 34:4 | I sought the Lord, and He answered me, and delivered me from all my fears.
Psalm 34:4-5 | I sought the Lord, and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to Him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.
Psalm 34:8 | Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in Him!
Psalm 40:8 | I desire to do Your will, my God. Your law is within my heart.
Psalm 46:1-2 | God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea.
Psalm 46:1-3 | God is our refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with their surging.
Psalm 46:7 | The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress.
Psalm 55:22 | Cast your burden on the Lord, and He will sustain you, He will never permit the righteous to be moved.
Psalm 62:1-2 | My soul finds rest in God alone; my salvation comes from Him. He alone is my rock and my salvation; He is my fortress, I will never be shaken.
Psalm 62:6 | He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be shaken.
Psalm 73:25-26 | Whom have I in Heaven but You? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides You. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
Psalm 91:1-2 | You who live in the shelter of the Most High, who abide in the shadow of the Almighty, will say to the Lord, "My refuge and my fortress; my God in whom I trust."
Psalm 9:9-10 | The Lord is a refuge for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.
Revelation 14:13 | And I heard a voice from Heaven saying, "Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on." "Blessed indeed," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!"
Revelation 17:14 | These will wage war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those who are with Him are the called and chosen and faithful.
Revelation 1:17-18 | When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, "Fear not, I am the first and the last, and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades."
Revelation 21:1 | Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there is no longer any sea.
Revelation 21:4 | He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.
Revelation 22:15 | Outside are the dogs, those who practice magic arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
Revelation 2:2-3 | I know your deeds, your hard work and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked people, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. You have persevered and have endured hardships for my name, and have not grown weary.
Romans 10:3 | Since they did not know the righteousness of God and sought to establish their own, they did not submit to God’s righteousness.
Romans 10:4 | Christ is the culmination of The Law so that there may be righteousness for everyone who believes.
Romans 10:9-10 | If you declare with your mouth, "Jesus is Lord" and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is with your heart that you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you profess your faith and are saved.
Romans 11:33-34 | Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable His judgments, and His paths beyond tracing out! Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been His counsellor?
Romans 11:36 | From Him and through Him and for Him are all things. To Him be the glory for ever!
Romans 12:1 | I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God’s mercy, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God - this is your true and proper worship.
Romans 12:10 | Be devoted to one another in love. Honor one another above yourselves.
Romans 12:11-12 | Never be lazy, but work hard and serve the Lord enthusiastically. Rejoice in our confident hope. Be patient in trouble, and keep on praying.
Romans 12:12-13 | Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Share with the Lord’s people who are in need. Practise hospitality.
Romans 12:14-15 | Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice; mourn with those who mourn.
Romans 12:16 | Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited.
Romans 12:17 | Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everyone.
Romans 12:19 | Do not take revenge, my dear friends, but leave room for God’s wrath, for it is written: "It is mine to avenge; I will repay" says the Lord.
Romans 12:2 | Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God’s will is – His good, pleasing and perfect will.
Romans 12:20 | If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head.
Romans 12:21 | Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans 12:3 | By the grace given me, I say to every one of you: do not think of yourself more highly than you ought, but rather think of yourself with sober judgment, in accordance with the faith God has distributed to each of you.
Romans 12:9-10 | Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil; cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in love. Honour one another above yourselves. 
Romans 13:13-14 | Let us behave decently, as in the daytime, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and debauchery, not in dissension and jealousy. Rather, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think about how to gratify the desires of the flesh.
Romans 13:2 | Whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves.
Romans 13:5 | It is necessary to submit to the authorities, not only because of possible punishment but also as a matter of conscience.
Romans 13:7 | Give to everyone what you owe them: if you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honour, then honour.
Romans 13:8 | Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another, for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law. 
Romans 14:1-2 | Accept the one whose faith is weak, without quarrelling over disputable matters. One person’s faith allows them to eat anything, but another, whose faith is weak, eats only vegetables.
Romans 14:13 | Let us stop passing judgment on one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling-block or obstacle in the way of a brother or sister.
Romans 14:14 | I am convinced, being fully persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in itself. But if anyone regards something as unclean, then for that person it is unclean.
Romans 14:16 | Do not let what you know is good be spoken of as evil.
Romans 14:19 | Let us make every effort to do what leads to peace and to mutual edification.
Romans 14:5 | One person considers one day more sacred than another; another considers every day alike. Each of them should be fully convinced in their own mind. 
Romans 14:8-9 | If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s. For this very reason, Christ died and returned to life so that he might be the Lord of both the dead and the living.
Romans 15:1 | We who are strong ought to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves.
Romans 15:13 | May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
Romans 15:7 | Accept one another, just as Christ accepted you, in order to bring praise to God.
Romans 1:16 | I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes: first to the Jew, then to the Gentile.
Romans 2:1 | You, therefore, have no excuse, you who pass judgment on someone else, for at whatever point you judge another, you are condemning yourself, because you who pass judgment do the same things.
Romans 3:20 | No one will be declared righteous in God’s sight by the works of the law; rather, through the law we become conscious of our sin.
Romans 3:25 | God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement, through the shedding of His blood — to be received by faith. He did this to demonstrate His righteousness.
Romans 5:3-4 | [...] we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
Romans 6:12-13 | Do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its evil desires. Do not offer any part of yourself to sin as an instrument of wickedness, but rather offer yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life; and offer every part of yourself to Him as an instrument of righteousness. 
Romans 6:20-21 | When you were slaves to sin, you were free from the control of righteousness. What benefit did you reap at that time from the things you are now ashamed of? 
Romans 6:23 | For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 6:4 | We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.
Romans 6:9 | We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over Him.
Romans 8:10 | If Christ is in you, then even though your body is subject to death because of sin, the Spirit gives life because of righteousness. 
Romans 8:14-15 | Those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of God. The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship.
Romans 8:26-27 | [...] the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us through wordless groans. And He who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for God’s people in accordance with the will of God.
Romans 8:28 | We know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.
Romans 8:31 | What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Romans 8:38-39 | For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 8:5 | Those who live according to the flesh have their minds set on what the flesh desires, but those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires.
Romans 8:6 | The mind governed by the flesh is death, but the mind governed by the Spirit is life and peace.
Romans 8:8 | Those who live in the realm of the flesh cannot please God.
Romans 9:15 | I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.
Romans 9:15-16 | I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. It does not, therefore, depend on human desire or effort, but on God’s mercy.
Romans 9:17 | I raised you up for this very purpose, that I might display My power in you and that My name might be proclaimed in all the earth.
Romans 9:19-20 | One of you will say to me: "Then why does God still blame us? For who is able to resist His will?" But who are you, a human being, to talk back to God? Shall what is formed say to the one who formed it, "Why did you make me like this?"
Ruth 1:16-17 | Ruth replied, "Don’t urge me to leave you or to turn back from you. Where you go I will go, and where you stay I will stay. Your people will be my people and your God my God. Where you die I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord deal with me, be it ever so severely, if even death separates you and me."
Ruth 2:12 | May the Lord repay you for what you have done. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge.
Song of Songs 1:1 | Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth for your love is more delightful than wine.
Song of Songs 1:10 | Your cheeks are beautiful with earrings, your neck with strings of jewels.
Song of Songs 1:16 | How beautiful you are, my darling! Oh, how beautiful! Your eyes are doves.
Song of Songs 2:3 | Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest is my beloved among the young men. I delight to sit in his shade, and his fruit is sweet to my taste.
Song of Songs 3:1-2 | All night long on my bed I looked for the one my heart loves; I looked for him but did not find him. I will get up now and go about the city, through its streets and squares; I will search for the one my heart loves [...]
Song of Songs 4:9 | You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
Song of Songs 5:10 | My beloved is radiant and ruddy, outstanding among ten thousand.
Song of Songs 5:3 | I have taken off my robe, must I put it on again? I have washed my feet, must I soil them again?
Song of Songs 6:5-6 | Turn your eyes from me, darling; they overwhelm me. Your hair is like a flock of goats descending from Gilead. Your teeth are like a flock of sheep coming up from the washing [...]
Song of Songs 7:2-4 | Your waist is a mound of wheat encircled by lilies. Your breasts are like two fawns, like twin fawns of a gazelle. Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes [...]
Song of Songs 7:7 | Your stature is like that of the palm, and your breasts like clusters of fruit.
Song of Songs 8:10 | I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers. Thus I have become in his eyes like one bringing contentment.
Song of Songs 8:6-7 | Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the Lord. Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, he would be utterly despised.
Song of Songs 8:7 | Many waters cannot quench love; rivers cannot wash it away. If one were to give all the wealth of his house for love, it would be utterly scorned.
Thessalonians 4:13-14 | Brothers and sisters, we do not want you to be uninformed about those who sleep in death, so that you do not grieve like the rest of mankind, who have no hope. For we believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in Him.
Titus 1:16 | They claim to know God, but by their actions they deny Him. They are detestable, disobedient and unfit for doing anything good.
Zechariah 13:6 | If someone asks, "What are these wounds on your body?" they will answer, "The wounds I was given at the house of my friends."
Zechariah 2:5 | "I myself will be a wall of fire around it" declares the Lord, "and I will be its glory within."
Zechariah 2:8 | The Lord Almighty says: "After the Glorious One has sent me against the nations that have plundered you, for whoever touches you touches the apple of his eye."
Zechariah 3:7 | The Lord says: "If you will walk in obedience to me and keep my requirements, then you will govern my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you a place among these standing here."
Zechariah 7:12-13 | They made their hearts as hard as flint and would not listen to The Law or to the words that the Lord had sent by His Spirit through the earlier prophets. So the Almighty was very angry. "When I called, they did not listen; so when they called, I would not listen" says the Lord Almighty.
Zechariah 8:14-17 | "Just as I had determined to bring disaster on you and showed no pity when your ancestors angered me, now I have determined to do good again to Jerusalem and Judah. Do not be afraid. These are the things you are to do: Speak the truth to each other, and render true and sound judgment in your courts; do not plot evil against each other, and do not love to swear falsely. I hate all this," declared the Lord.
Zephaniah 3:17 | The Lord your God is with you, the Mighty Warrior who saves. He will take great delight in you; in His love He will no longer rebuke you, but will rejoice over you with singing.
Zephaniah 3:8 | "Therefore wait for Me," declares the Lord, "For the day when I rise up as a witness indeed, My decision is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out on them My indignation, all My burning anger; for all the Earth will be devoured by the fire of My zeal.